>> Richard Feldman: Single page apps.
All right, we're going to
talk about a few things here.
First is routes.
Second is pages.
Third is loading and persisting data.
And fourth is module structure.
Okay, this is the third of three sections
by process of elimination in which we're
immediately going to go to the code and
poke around in it.
All right, let's take a look.
So we'll start with talking about routes.
So routes essentially are the conceptual
idea of, what is our URL space?
We've got all these URLs that we
potentially do or do not handle,
and URLs each map to a particular route.
Now, we have a few routes
that look sort of familiar.
We've got Home,
I'll get to Route in a second.
Login, Logout, Register,
Settings, Article.
Notice that the Article route
is parameterized on a slug.
So you can't be on a particular viewing an
article page unless you also have a slug
which identifies which
article we're viewing.
You have a profile which has a username
that corresponds to it, in other words,
whose profile are we viewing.
We have NewArticle and EditArticle
which are a little bit different in
that EditArticle has a slug associated
with it and NewArticle does not.
Under the hood,
these amount to a single page which
we've been editing throughout the day.
But as we will see later, pages and
routes are slightly different concepts.
So this is our route, and
it sort of determines, logically speaking,
what are we doing right now?
What are we on at this exact moment?
These are the ones that we care about.
If the URL is something that
does not map to one of these,
then that's going to be an error state.
That's something we just don't have
a concept of in our application.
We do have a parser.
So this is a URL parser, it comes from
the URL parsing library, the URL package.
And it's got a couple of
handy things in here.
If you have seen this before.
So this is basically infects operated
use for DSL for specifying URL strings.
And then it's gotta a couple of different
combiner here parser one of essence string
which we'll look at the moment.
So here's how we write a URL parser that
maps URL strings directly to these routes.
So we start off with parser.oneOf,
which is basically going to say, run each
of these in order, and the first one that
succeeds, that's what we're gonna use.
Just stop going through the list.
We'll just disregard the others.
So first, we have Parser.map Home to
Parser.top, which essentially says, if
we get empty URL, the top of our hierarchy
with nothing else on top, totally great.
Then, we're gonna just succeed with Home.
Then, we have Login, which is /login,
logout, which is /logout,
settings, profile, register, etc.
We can see the little slash infix
operator here, which is basically saying,
when we have a profile here,
which is to say, one of these,
that's gonna have two pieces to it.
First, it's gonna have /Profile, and
then it's going to have the results
of a Username.URL parser.
So it's gonna look for a profile and
then it's gonna parse whatever comes after
the slash, after a profile as a username.
And it's gonna put both of those
into this profile right here, okay.
So using this we have this sort of concise
DSL to show these mappings between URLs of
various shapes and sizes,
in some cases with extra slashes and
strings and so forth.
And they're mapping to routes.
Worth noting that sometimes we have routes
that do a different, we have a different
route depending on whether or not the URL
does or doesn't have a slash after it.
So for example,
we have Parser.map NewArticle.
This is the case where we have just the
editor and we don't have a slash after it.
Followed by the case where we do have
an editor followed by a slash and
then we do the slug dot URL parser.
As we see noted,
good module organization strategies for
elm it typically our each module
revolves around the particular type.
So this is the router module and it has
a couple of different functions here.
Notice that we don't actually
expose that parser directly,
we use it as a helper to something else.
Namely, the from the URL function.
So this says give me a URL, and
I may or may not give you back a route.
Now, this is a little bit
of extra logic in here,
that has to do with the fact that
the real world spec doesn't deal in terms
of actual URLs look like slashes
in them directly, rather it does
sort of builds like an extra layer
on top of them based on the hash.
So if you look in here, you notice that
we're not actually on the root here,
we're on localhost.300/pound.
And if I go to new host
we're going to pound/editor.
If I go to settings that's pound/settings.
Essentially I wanted to work as though
we were not dealing in those terms.
So what I did is I essentially wrote a
little helper here that says I'm going to
actually take the fragment, and
pretend that's our actual path.
And then use that, and then parse as
normal as though it were a regular path.
So this is sort of a little extra step
that I took to make sure it feels like
using the path because that’s really
what they’re going for with this spec.
They want the hash routing for various
reasons, but I wanted to sort of pretend
that it’s a path because that’s what
it most closely resembles by design.
Okay, so
that's how we go from a URL to a route.
And it's a maybe route, because again,
this could maybe not map to any of these.
If this one of fails and we go through all
of our known routes and we don't see it,
then it's like, yeah, I'm just gonna give
you back nothing because that URL that
you're visiting does not map to any
of these routes that we know about.
Then ultimately,
that's what's gonna lead some other
logic to render a page not found.
Okay, so
that's how we go from URL to a route.
What's arguably more useful
is the other way around,
is this Route to String function.
Now, what this does is it takes
a route and it returns a string.
And essentially what it does
is it uses this URL builder,
sorry, this string.join to build
the URL with the hash in front of it.
And essentially, I am making this
my single source of truth for
how to generate links
throughout the application.
So anywhere I wanna put a link,
I’m not going to call href directly.
What I wanna use instead is this little
helper we have here called route.href.
And route.href doesn't take a string,
it takes a route and
gives you back an attribute.
So through out the application,
this is what we're using whenever
we wanna link to something.
So rather than linking to it a hard-coded
string which could potentially get out
of sync,
could potentially get a typo in it.
We're instead passing it one of
these custom type values such that
if we're ever giving it an invalid route,
it just won't compile.
Not only that, but also are always
because we're passing it about,
forcing us to specify, not only is this
an article, but also this article has to
have a slogan associated with it, but
we can't forget that or it won't compile.
So having this route type,
actually helps is us out in two ways.
It helps us when parsing URLs because it
gives us a way to map so that route and
say, okay,
this is actually part of the set of
things that we recognize as a valid URLs.
And it also helps us go
to the other way around.
And to say,
when you want to get a URLs too something.
Just work only in terms of the route, and
leave all of the URL specific
logic inside of this module.
So actually outside of this route module
none of the rest of the application should
have any business dealing
with URLs directly.
It should all be in term of routes for
them.
So essentially, route is an abstraction
on top of valid URLs, URLs,
that we actually know how to
work with in our application.
Now, granted,
there are not guarantees around this.
So it's encouraged to use routes.href,
but the plain HTML href still exists.
If pages want to, they can continue
to use hard-coded strings.
If we wanted to actually rule that out, we
could do something like what Tesla did and
make sort of a drop in replacement for
HTML which includes the route
module inside of it.
And then also drop in replacements for
all the issue or functions, except for
that one.
Well, that seemed like overkill.
So, instead it's just something
that is encouraged but which,
there's an escape hatch if people
want to use the other thing.
Hopefully, we could train our team,
if I had a team of people working
on this code base to use route.
And when we do it at work,
this is basically how we do it.